Sample Puzzles:

1)Find the 3 digit no. whose last digit is the square root of the first digit and second digit is the sum of the other two digits.
And that number is divisible by 2,3,6,7.What is that number?
Ans: 462

2)Two people are playing with a pair of dies. Instead of numbers, the dies have different colors on their sides. The first person
wins if the same color appears on both the dies and the second person wins if the colors are different. The odds of their winning
are equal. If the first dice has 5 red sides and 1 blue side, find the colour(s) on the second one.
Ans: 3 red,3 blue
Solution : p(r1)=5/6, p(b1)=1/6,Let x sides are red.
Prob. To get both colors are same => [(5/6)(x/6)+(1/6)(6-x)/6] =1/2, After solving x=3

3) A car is traveling at a uniform speed. The driver sees a milestone showing a 2-digit number. After traveling for an hour the
driver sees another milestone with the same digits in reverse order. After another hour the driver sees another milestone containing
the same two digits with a zero in between(0). What is the average speed of the driver.
Ans: 45 kmph 

4) There are three persons A, B, C. one day they set out in different directions and each one steals an animal.The animals are camel,
horse and a mule though not in the order. A CBI officer catches them and on interrogation he has the following statements:
A says: B has stolen a horse
C says: A is telling wrong, B has stolen a mule.
B says: A and C are both telling wrong. I have stolen nothing.

The person stealing a camel tells wrong while the person with a horse tells right. So tell which person steal which animal.
Ans: A: Camel B: Mule c: Horse

5) There are 3 societies A, B, C. A Lent Tractors to B and C as many as they had already. After some time B gave as many tractors
to A and C as many as they have. After sometime C did the same thing. At the end of this transaction each one of them had 24.
Find the cars each originally had. This question was bit differently asked with the same thing.
Ans: A had 39 cars, B had 21 cars C had 12 cars 

6) The quarter of the time from midnight to present time added to the half of the time from the present to
midnight gives the present time. What is the present time?
Ans: 9hrs past 36 minutes AM

10) 8 Kigs and 14 Ligs can do 510 tors of work in10days. 13 Kigs and 6 Ligs can do 484 tors of work in 12 days.
Then find work done by Kigs and Ligs individually in tors/hr?

11) A boy is playing a game. He took totally 55 blocks and kept like placing some x number on the ground,next one less than that above
those blocks like that till the topmost one is one, how many blocks are there at the base level?
Ans: 10

12) A person traveled ¾ the of a distance by riding horse. He traveled remaining distance by walk. If he took twice the time to walk as he
rode, how many times he rode faster than he walked?
May 2003

13) The below are the statements of 3 persons. If the person's speak only two of the three statements correctly, what are their ages?
A: A is 22. B is 1 yr more than A. C is 1 yr less than A.
B: I am not the youngest. There is 3 yrs difference between me and C. C is 25.
C: A is 23 B > A

14) A, B, C, D, E were shirts of colours red, blue, green, yellow and orange respectively. They stood on a ladder. Yellow is not the colour at the
tail end of the ladder. Yellow is between those who wore green and red. Green is between those who wore yellow and orange and who is behind blue.
Which color is at the end of the ladder?

15) In a business, A invested 3 1/2 times more than B. They wanted to include C by taking an amount of Rs2500 from C. How should that amount be
divided among A and B such that three of them get the same interest?

16) One of the arms of a balance is longer than the other. If 1kg is kept on the left pan, it is equal to 8 water melons. If the 1kg is kept on a a right pan,
it is equal to 2 water melons on right. If the weight of all the watermelons are same, what is the weight of the water melon?

17) A person has a son. His son's age is five times his daughter's age. His wife's age is 5 times his son's age. His age is twice his wife's age.
The total of all this ages is equal to his son's grandma's age who celebrated her 81st birthday this year. What is his son's age?

18) Tom has given some stamps to A. He asked A about them. A said " They were great. B got 3 more than ½ of what she would have got if I kept 3 more
than ½ of what she got. Tom asked A "How much did u keep?"
A answered "two more than what I gave B". Find the total no of stamps Tom gave A.?

19) Two travelers, one with 64 barrels of wine, other with 20 barrels of wine. They don't have enough money to pay duty for the same.
First traveler pays 40 francs and gives his 5 barrels, Second traveler gives his 2 barrels but gets 40 francs in exchange.
What's value of each barrel, and duty for each barrel?

20)What is Ann's relation with her husband's mother's only daughter-in-law's sister's husband?

21) Some guy holding a glass of wine in his hand looking around in the room says, "This is same as it was four years ago, how old are your two kids now?"
Other guy says "Three now, Pam had one more in the meanwhile." Pam says, "If you multiply their ages, answer is 96 and if you add the ages of
first two kids,
addition is same as our house number." The first guy says, "You are very smart but that doesn't tell me their ages." Pam says, "It's very simple, just think."
What are the ages of three kids?

23)There are seven paintings T, U, V, W, X, Y, Z of which she has to select five for the exhibition. Following are the conditions: a. If T is selected,
X cannot be selected If U is selected, Y must be selected If V is selected, X must be selected
Answer following questions: (4 options for each sub-question, Don't remember options exactly)
(i) Find the correct sequence of exhibits from the following:
(ii) If V is selected then which of the following is true?
(iii) Don't remember this question
(iv) If in the selected sequence one exhibit replaces other without violating conditions, which of the following replacement is possible?

24) There are three tribes, Abhor, Dravid and Magar.
a. Abhor women can't marry Dravid man
b. Magar man can't marry Dravid woman
c. Son inherits tribe from his father and a daughter from her mother
d. All other combinations are possible e. There's no wedlock
Four sub-questions for this. Don't remember exactly but were like this: Can abhor and magar couple have dravid descendents, magar daughter, etc.

25) Three customers want haircut and a shave. In a saloon, two barbers operate at same speed. They take quarter of an hour for the haircut and 5 mins
for the shave. How quickly can they finish the haircut and shave of these three customers?

26)A shopkeeper likes to arrange and rearrange his collection of stamps. He arranges them sometimes in pair, sometimes in bundle of three, sometimes in
bundle of fours, occasionally in bundle of fives and sixes. Every time he's left with one stamp in hand after arrangement in bundles. But if he arranges in the
bundle of seven, he's not left with any stamp. How many stamps does a shopkeeper have?

27)Three different types of objects in a bucket. How many times does one need to select object from the bucket to get atleast 3 objects of the same type?

28) I spent one-sixth of my age as a boy and one-12th in youth, remarked the boss" spent one-seventh and five years in matrimony".
My son born just after that period was elected as a governor 4 years back when he was half of my present age. what is the age of the boss?
Ans:-84

29) A girl had several dollars with her. she went out for shopping and spent half of them in shopping mall,being generous she had given 1 dollar to
the beggar. After that she wqent for lunch and spent the half of the remaining and gave 2 dollars as tip to the waiter.Then she went to watch a movie and
spent the half of remaining dollars and gave autorikshaw-wala 3 dollars.This left her with only 1 dollar.How many dollars did she had with her at the beggining.

30)couples were there ,B ,E,C. and G, H, M ,Bill,Eds and Cleo husbands and Grace,Helen and Marry wives, not in order.went to play 18 points golf .
1.GHM and E scored 100,102,106 and 94 respectively.
2.B and C either scored 98 and 96 and had written there scores in cards which they lost .but when found them back,they found that the two couples had
the sAME TOTAL.
3.eDS WIFE DEFEATED bILLS WIFE. Tell the combinations?

